Add v1 of threat model document (#47)
mobilecoinfoundation/fog: fog-threat-model-1.0.0.md

# MobileCoin Fog Threat Model

MobileCoin Fog is a suite of services that enable use of MobileCoin payments in resource-constrained
environments, particularly, mobile devices. This threat model explains the security invariants of the system
for the following audiences:

* Users of MobileCoin Fog
* Developers integrating the MobileCoin SDK into their wallet software
* Parties interested in running a MobileCoin Fog deployment
* Security researchers and auditors curious about the system, or actively attempting to break the system

We employ the "user-first" approach of [Invariant-Centric Threat Modeling](https://github.com/defuse/ictm) in this document.

Below, we describe the hypothetical adversaries of the system, followed by the security invariants provided by the
system in the face of each adversary. We also identify specific non-goals in order to express the bounds of what the
system specifically cannot do.

# Terms

For the reader's ease, we have chosen simpler terms for some of the elements of MobileCoin. In particular,

> while in documentation, a transaction produces "transaction outputs," in this document, the term

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the literature, a transaction produces "transaction outputs," in this document, the term
```

Eve has the capabilities of Oscar, and additionally:

* Can monitor all Fog service machines and one MobileCoin consensus service machine participating in quorum, observing all working memory of these machines as they operate.
* Cannot compromise the confidentiality or integrity of SGX enclaves, nor that of RDRAND, nor the SGX remote attestation process.
* Can monitor the memory access patterns of any running enclave in the system, even if they cannot read the memory.
* Does not have access to the user's phone and cannot run malicious code there.

### Infrastructure-compromising Adversary (Mallory)

Mallory has the capabilities of Eve, and additionally:

* Has root access on Fog service machines and one MobileCoin consensus service machine participating in quorum,
  and can observe and tamper with all working memory and operations of these machines.

### SGX-compromising Adversary with root on Fog Infrastructure (Darth)

Darth has the capabilities of Mallory, and additionally:

* Can compromise either SGX itself, or the SGX remote attestation process.

### SGX-compromising Adversary without root on Fog Infrastructure (Trudy)

Trudy has the capabilities of Oscar, and additionally:

> * Has the capability to compromise SGX, but does not have root access on any infrastructure machines.

Author: i thought trudy was the intruder? idk, we needed a less ominous intruder than darth haha

* Cause the users to download large amounts of uninteresting data on their phone.

### SGX-compromising Adversary with root on Fog Infrastructure (Darth)

Darth cannot:

* Cause arbitrary code to run on the user's device.
* Learn any of the user's private keys.
* Steal the user's funds.
* Make the user send funds when they didn't want to.
* Make the user send funds to someone other than who they intended.
* Cause the user's funds to become unavailable for use.
* Cause a user to associate the wrong public address with another user.
* Learn the amount of any user's transaction.
* Learn any user's balance.

Darth can:

* Do anything Mallory could
* Learn many view-public keys, which appear in the public addresses of Fog users.
* Learn the recipient of any payment record sent to a Fog user:
  * By attacking fog-ingest enclave in one of several ways, or by attacking fog-view enclave.
  * Just as the baseline adversary does, they have *some information* about who the sender was.
* Learn how many and in which blocks a Fog user received payments, if they perform full-wallet recovery
  * By attacking fog-view enclave.

The system has a forward-secrecy property:

> * If SGX is patched and Fog enclaves are rebuilt and redeployed, this adversary no longer has any more information
>   than its earlier adversaries, for transactions and interactions that occur after that point. This does not require
>   the users to change their private keys, but may require them to update their app in order to trust the new enclave.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If SGX is patched and Fog enclaves are rebuilt and redeployed, Darth-level adversaries no longer have any additional information,
  and are degraded to the Mallory-level for transactions and interactions that occur after that point. This does not require
  the users to change their private keys, but may require them to update their app in order to trust the new enclave.
  ```
